XM’s lone competitor in the duopoly that was to become the satellite radio industry was SIRIUS,  which by all accounts in 1997 was ahead in the race to market. Founded in 1990 and traded on the  NASDAQ Small Cap Market since September 1994, SIRIUS was managed by two veterans of the  telecommunications industry.12 Unlike XM, SIRIUS had already received substantial investment of approximately $446 million through stock and bond offerings,13 and the company estimated that it  would commence commercial operation of its service by the end of 1999.14 
SIRIUS planned a fee-based service as opposed to an advertiser-supported service. Subscribers  were to be charged about $10 per month for 50 channels of near “CD quality” programming sound.  Thirty of these channels were slated to be music stations, while the others would provide news,  sports, and talk shows. All channels were expected to be commercial-free. The commercial-free  feature was especially attractive because traditional “terrestrial” radio stations (AM and FM) still  interrupted their broadcasts with as much as 20 minutes of commercials each hour.  
In contrast to the relatively conservative press coverage of XM, there were numerous news stories  about SIRIUS in 1997. Some of the press detailed SIRIUS’ expected launch strategy. In addition to  the approximately 110 million commuters, one report stated, SIRIUS was expected to target truck  drivers (3 million), owners of recreational vehicles (3 million), and the 45 million “underserved  listeners” living in rural areas, which receive few FM radio stations.15 According to David Margolese,  CEO of Sirius, “There are a few hundred million motorists in the United States. . . . There are truckers,  RV owners and others who drive 30 or 40 miles each day that have to retune their radio to find a new  station. With our service, you’ll be able to drive from New York to L.A. and always listen.”16 
SIRIUS was also drawing the attention of Wall Street analysts, one of whom referred to the  company as “one of the most compelling business opportunities” in the satellite telecommunications  industry.17 Analyst estimates of SIRIUS’ adoption were approximately 1.2 million subscribers in year  one growing to 7-7.5 million by the end of year five.18 In December 1997, several industry analysts  rated SIRIUS as a “Buy.” 
Although XM was still developing its business plan, its management had a good idea of SIRIUS’ planned product and programming mix in late 1997. Its product concept, publicly announced in  1997, featured the ability for satellite radio subscribers to receive SIRIUS broadcasts by acquiring an  adapter card, or radio card, and an easily attachable, wireless silver-dollar-sized satellite dish  antenna. It was thought that listeners would not be required to replace their existing car radios and  would be able to use the radio card by plugging it into their radio's cassette or compact disc slot.  Listeners using a radio card would then be able to push a button to switch between AM, FM, and  SIRIUS Radio cards would have a visual display that indicated the channel and format selected, as  well as the title, recording artist, and album title of the song being played, and would be portable  from car to car. SIRIUS envisioned activation to be accomplished via satellite by calling the  company's customer service center. In 1997, there had not been any agreement between SIRIUS and  XM to develop radios using a common technical standard. SIRIUS was expected to launch its  satellites between late 1999 and early 2000.  
In addition to SIRIUS, traditional radio companies, radio offered through satellite TV (e.g., Music  Choice, DMX), and Internet radio formed the competitive landscape for XM. To characterize this  landscape, Acker developed a matrix of the major product attributes offered by each competitor   
